Good morning.
Welcome to Understanding Core Motion.
For those of you who
are new to Core Motion,
this talk will provide an
overview of the framework,
as well as helpful hints and
techniques for you to help
bootstrap your motion-able apps.
For those of you who are already
familiar with Core Motion,
we'll dig deeper into sensor
and algorithm performance.
Explore capabilities, usages,
help you refine ideas you have
for your existing applications,
or perhaps come up with
ideas for new ones.
Additionally,
I'll also take you through the process
of using Core Motion from A to Z,
pointing out design considerations
and best practices along the way.
And we will culminate today's talk by
reiterating some of the concepts we've
covered today with a couple of demos.
The code for which are going to be
available for download after this talk.
So Core Motion is about the
sensors and sensor fusion.
And I'm going to start with the sensors.
We shipped the accelerometer
with the very first iPhone,
and it's been really popular ever since.
The accelerometer measures
gravitational as well as inertial
forces that impinge upon it.
What that means for you as a
developer is that there's actually
quite a bit that you can do with it,
because if you can measure gravity,
or to be more precise,
if you can figure out how gravity is
oriented with respect to the device,
you can back out its pose, its attitude,
its tip, or its tilt.
And that's the principle behind
apps such as the iHandy Leveler,
which surprisingly remains
one of the most popular apps
among sensor-enabled apps,
I should say.
So besides gravity,
you can ignore it altogether.
For instance,
assume only horizontal motion.
And that's the principle behind
games such as Shufflepuck,
or Goff-Puck.
Excuse me, Goff-Putt.
The thing I like about the accelerometer
is that it is very efficient.
To give you a sense of
how efficient it is,
compared to the magnetometer,
it consumes 10 times less power,
40 times less power than the gyro.
What this means for you as a developer
is that if you are power conscious,
You can still afford to be lax about
how long you run the accelerometer.
Or you may want to look at the
accelerometer first as the first stop.
It's also very responsive.
And what I mean by that,
or what it means for you,
is that you're going to be able to afford
to filter it much more aggressively
if you need a really clean signal.
You have to be careful, though,
about using the accelerometer by itself.
And the reason is because of ambiguity.
And to get a sense of
what I mean by that,
take a look at this plot behind me.
This shows basically the output
of the three-axis accelerometer.
I'm only looking at the X and Y.
And you can, just from basis on the plot,
you would be tempted to assume
that that trajectory resulted from
a pure rotation of that device,
right?
First, it's canted at some angle,
so both the X and the Y axes
pick up some measure of gravity.
And then as the device is
rotated through a vertical,
now all of the gravity
is sensed in the Y axis,
and none of it is sensed in the X.
But in fact,
that trajectory was created from a
much more complex set of motions.
Because you probably recall from
your first semester dynamics class,
right?
[Transcript missing]
But the sensor is on the device,
which contains contributions from
a lot of the nearby electric field.
You've got electronics,
you've got electrons
zipping down the traces,
you've got magnet speakers.
All of these generate
a net magnetic field,
which is going to cause your
reading to be offset by some
potentially huge amount,
which is going to cause
your heading to be off,
right?
Now, it's interesting that
those contributions,
since they travel with the sensor,
if you were to rotate your device
again through a complete circle,
you'll trace yet another circle,
and the center of that circle is going
to be offset by the net contribution of
those disturbances that I talked about.
So if you know that net offset,
then you can basically
back out your new heading.
And so that's the principle behind a lot
of the calibrations behind the compass.
And I bring that up here because, again,
if you're going to use
the raw magnetometers,
you have to be aware of both the
contributions from the device
and also what you'll need to do
to take that contribution out.
After the magnetometer,
we started shipping the
gyros with the-- 3GS.
The gyro is actually one
of my favorite sensors.
It is my favorite sensor.
The reason I like the gyro is because,
unlike the other sensors,
it's very precise.
There's no ambiguity.
It's going to measure
rotation and only rotation.
It doesn't matter what
that device is doing.
It's only going to pick
up the rotational part,
the spin part of what
that device is doing.
So it's very, very precise.
So it's good for free space motion.
You don't have to worry
about constraining it.
You don't have to say, oh, you know,
I'm only going to use it in
quasi-static state conditions.
You're going to pick up
spin no matter what you do.
So it's very, very responsive.
The other thing I like about the sensor,
it's got a great dynamic range,
which means that you're not going to
worry about saturating the sensor.
You can use it however you want.
Your user is going to use
your app however they want,
and you don't really need
to worry about saturation.
And as we said before, it's very precise.
So since it does such a good
job with measuring spin,
you're going to -- might be tempted
to want to integrate the signal to
get the attitude because a lot of
games are really interested in where
that device is pointing or where
the user is pointing that device.
I would caution you against that.
And the reason is because the gyro,
just like any sensor,
it's going to contain some bias,
some non-zero reading while it's at rest.
And that's going to be
common to any sensor.
And in fact, this gyro is actually
very good about that.
The bias offset is only about 1/100th
percent of its full dynamic range.
So it's still a very good sensor,
but there is a bias.
And that bias is non-zero so that
if you integrate that bias over
time to try to get the attitude,
you know, within half a minute,
you're essentially going to be pointing
45 degrees off from where you want to be.
So again, you want to be careful about
integrating your measurements.
So you're sitting there
and you're thinking,
well, you told me I can't use
the gyro to get attitude,
but I really need attitude.
I can use the accelerometer to
give me the tip and the tilt,
but only under quasi-static
state conditions.
And the magnetometer
is great for heading,
but I got to be wary about
all these other conditions.
So what if --
What if we can combine all
three of those sensors,
fuse them all together to give you
basically the pointing stability of
the magnetometer and the accelerometer
and the responsiveness of the gyro?
And you could do that.
We also do that for you,
and that's device motion.
That's sensor fusion.
It's basically going to be
able to give you accurate,
responsive estimates of the
device's pose and motion throughout
the entire range of motion.
Use device motion,
use sensor fusion for your games if
you need that full range of motion.
If you need that responsiveness.
You're racing games.
If you need it to be more responsive.
Your first-person shooter game,
if you need it to be more tight.
Your augmented reality game,
if you need it to be more real.
That's not to say that sensor fusion
is going to be the be-all and end-all.
You'll always want to use sensor fusion.
That's not what I mean because there
are going to be certain instances
where you want to use the raw sensor.
Accelerometer, for instance.
We already said it's great for attitude.
It's great for shape.
But again, be careful about ambiguity.
The magnetometer, good for heading.
The gyro, great for spin.
But again,
the sensor fusion is the one that,
removes the uncertainty about
ambiguity so that you can get attitude.
It does a lot of calibration
so you get the heading.
And of course, it gives you the spin and
it gives you the shape.
So, that, it gives you all of that.
So,
With that, let's dig a little deeper
into sensor fusion.
We'll take a look at what it does,
what it gives you,
what sensor fusion gives you,
and we'll just dive a little
deeper into the framework.
Your starting point is going
to be the Motion Manager.
That essentially is your gateway.
It's going to run in
your application space.
You're going to create an
instance to the Motion Manager,
and then through it,
you're going to specify what you want,
whether you want the raw sensors
or whether you want sensor fusion.
You're also going to specify
how often you want that data,
and also you'll start
and stop the updates.
That's all it is.
So within the Motion framework,
You'll get,
depending on your requirements,
you'll get the raw accelerometer data,
the gyro, the magnetometer.
We give that raw to you.
We also give you the sensor fusion.
See on device motion.
So, sensor fusion, what it gives you,
and this is actually the meat of it,
You'll get gravity.
Again, this is gravity in a completely
unconstrained motion.
Not the steady-state gravity,
but the dynamic gravity.
It'll also disambiguate the
user acceleration for you.
You also get the rotation rate.
The difference between this one
and the raw gyro is that this one
is going to be bias compensated.
And then we give you the attitude
and also the magnetic field.
And again,
the difference here between this
one and the raw magnetic field is
that this is also bias compensated
or disturbance has been removed.
The sensor has been calibrated.
So we'll start with
the user acceleration.
It's a property of device motion.
It's a struct CM acceleration.
And it's essentially -- it's just the
inertial acceleration seen by the device.
We remove gravity.
That's all it is.
The units are going to be in gravities.
So one is 9.8 meters a second squared.
And it's a struct just double XYZ.
Nothing mysterious about it.
Gravity.
It's the same struct as user
acceleration as you would expect.
The units are going to be the same.
To describe gravity or
what we give for you,
so take a look at this, right?
Suppose you had a device that
was sitting flat on the table.
You would expect that the horizontal
components of the gravity would be zero.
Now, if you were to move that
device back and forth,
You would get that kind of
signal on the X and Y axis.
Now, without a priori assumptions
about whether that device
is flat on the table or not,
you don't really know what gravity
looks like throughout all this.
But because sensor fusion knows
what the attitude of the device is,
and it knows that in real time,
we can project that signal.
on to the gravitational axis
and get what we estimate
gravity is going to look like.
And so as you can see,
it does a fairly good job
of extracting gravity out,
disambiguating that from
the user acceleration.
The rotation rate,
that's just the device's spin.
And again, as we said before,
it's corrected for bias.
The units are gonna be
in radians per second.
And the struct, again,
is gonna be given as x, y, z.
Again, these are rotations following
the right-hand rule.
So when we say rotation rate dot x,
it's essentially the
rotation about the x-axis.
The magnetic field.
So this is given as a struct called
CM Calibrated Magnetic Field,
and it's basically the nearby
magnetic field from everything.
Corrected for bias.
So again, when we talk about the device,
it's basically the magnetic field of
everything external to your device.
We calibrate it for the contributions
that are coming from the device.
And it's filtered
because it's quite noisy.
The results are stored in a struct.
The struct contains two elements.
One is the field itself,
and the other one is a measure of
the accuracy you should expect if
you were to use this field that we
give you in terms of how well we
think we've calibrated the device.
So again, the magnetic field,
nothing surprising there.
XYZ.
The units are going to be micro-Tesla.
Look,
it sounds like I'm repeating myself,
you know, the units.
I keep bringing the units back up.
But I think it's an important
point enough to belabor because
the units are so important,
right?
Misunderstanding of units are the
cause of so many falling bridges,
satellites lost in space, right?
Much suffering in guilders.
So I'm going to keep
hammering on the units.
In addition to the magnetic field,
we provide what the
calibration accuracy is.
And I'm just going to go
through the enums real quickly.
The first one is uncalibrated minus one.
What that means is that if
the field that you get has
uncalibrated level of accuracy,
it's essentially a random
number generator for you
in terms of the heading.
Low means it's marginal.
You can get something out of it,
but you certainly wouldn't
want to bet money on it.
You really want to live around
the medium and the high.
And again,
I'll tell you a little bit later
of how you can prompt the user to
recalibrate the device so that you
can improve the calibration accuracy.
This is the core of device motion.
It's the attitude.
Everything we've done up to this
point essentially has been a byproduct
of trying to get the attitude.
And the attitude we presented,
the attitude is just
the pose of the device,
right?
It's how it sits in 3D space.
We provide it in three flavors.
Euler angles, quaternions,
and rotation matrices.
Euler angles because it's intuitive.
It's basically going to
be presented as doubles,
roll, pitch, and yaw.
And it's easily visualized,
so you're going to want to use
Euler angles if you're going to
express the pose of the device
through any user interface.
And it's also familiar to the user.
And so we provide it as a convenience.
But mathematically, it's very,
very difficult to use, as you know.
It's not.
Efficient.
It's not unambiguous.
And you have the gimbal
lock issue problem.
So we also provide quaternions.
Quaternions, elegant.
You can represent everything
through four scalars.
Computationally, it's very,
very efficient and also avoids
the gimbal lock problem.
Another great thing
about the quaternions,
as you probably already know,
provides smooth interpolation.
So if you started out one
quaternion and you want to get to
the other pose defined by the other
quaternion and you interpolate that,
then your motion in real
space will also be very,
very smooth.
So that's a great
property of quaternions.
So I like quaternions, but unfortunately,
oh, and it's given as WXYZ.
Unitless, because it's some imaginary
fictitious concept.
So we provide some utilities to
get you from the quaternions that
you work with back to other angles.
So let's take this example.
You're going to start
out with a quaternion.
So you're going to get it
from the device motion,
motion manager.devicemotion.quaternion.
And let's say you do some math with it.
The point of this is not to
show you the quaternion math,
but let's just say,
you can do some math with it.
Right?
And then again,
we provide the utilities so
that at the end of all of that,
you can take your rotated quaternion
and convert it back to roll,
pitch, and yaw.
So everything is defined
in motionutils.h.
Go ahead and check it out.
It has a bunch of handy utilities
that go back and forth between
older angles and quaternions.
All right.
If you're like some of those
developers who prefer to...
I don't know,
eat broken glass in the morning rather
than granola to get yourself going.
If you like your math straight up.
You want to do things in 3x3 matrices?
That's fine.
We give you rotation matrices.
It's 3D representation.
Like I said, it's math straight up.
It's just math matrix, linear algebra,
stuff that you know
from freshman college.
We present it as a 3x3 struct.
Elements are M11 all the way to M33.
Again, no great mystery there.
So I'm going to give you a
flavor of how you could do some
operations with a matrix math.
So let's take a look
at this sample snippet.
This is actually -- we pulled this from
the demo that we're going to show later.
and it's also going to be in that
code that's available for download.
So suppose you had some GLK base effect,
and I'm not going to talk about
how you initialize that and such,
but basically what you want to do is,
you want to define some
operations on that object,
and then you also want to then
apply the transformation that comes
from the attitude of that device,
right?
So let's get the attitude of
the device from DeviceMotion,
and that's going to be a rotation matrix.
So that's going to be r equals
MotionManager.DeviceMotion.RotationMatrix
.
Now, we're going to convert that 3 by
3 into a homogeneous transform.
And again,
it's not the point of this thing,
but basically it's going to include the
rotation piece and the translation piece,
right, and then the one at the bottom.
And that's just to get it into
that 4 by 4 so that we can use the
matrix math that comes with that.
And we get the--we establish
the model view of that object
that we talked about earlier,
the GLK base effect,
and then we're just going
to rotate it by pi over 3.
And then in addition to that
rotation on that object,
we're basically going to--
Do another--we're gonna do the
transformation between our view,
which is defined by the-- our
rotation matrix from the device
motion and the rotation of the device,
and you just chain them together.
That's it.
And then when you basically
just update the view,
you'll see the rotation.
So it's really pretty neat.
I'm sorry,
I seem to have gotten ahead of myself.
That's it for attitude.
But when we talk about attitude,
that presupposes a reference frame.
And the reference frames that we use,
we actually allow you,
the application developer, to specify.
There's four of them.
And I'm just gonna go through them.
They all start out with
CM Attitude Reference Frame,
but they're essentially
distinguished by one being arbitrary,
another one essentially
being heading corrected,
the other one,
the third one means that we
peg it to magnetic north,
and the fourth means we
peg it to true north.
Then I'll go again into those in
greater detail in the following slides.
And we allow you to query which of
these are going to be available,
because by specifying one of
those four reference frames,
you are going to specify the flavor of
sensor fusion that you're going to use.
That's really important.
But I'm going to say that again.
You're going to specify the flavor of
the sensor fusion you use by specifying
one of those four reference frames.
And the reason why that's important
is because not all devices are
going to have the same sensor
fusion as the other devices.
are going to have all these sensors.
'Cause you're going to want
to build your app once,
and then it's going to, you know,
potentially run on the iPod-- iPod
Touch versus the iPhone versus the iPad.
And so you want to be very careful.
And so that's why we
provide that bit master,
that you can query the device
to see what's available before
you go and start the updates.
So once you've specified
the reference frame,
then you essentially just
tell Device Motion to start
sending you updates by calling
startDeviceMotionUpdates
using the reference frame.
So that's it.
So again, coming back to the
reference frame choices,
X arbitrary.
So regardless of which
reference frame you specify,
the only thing they're going to have
in common is that Z always is going to
be aligned with the gravitational axis.
Now,
using X arbitrary means that the X and Y,
though, is completely undefined.
It's basically going to specify
by the initial pose of the device,
wherever it's sitting.
So it could be rotated this way,
or it could be that way,
or it could be that way.
You basically have no control over that.
Another thing that you want to be aware,
when you specify this frame choice,
is that heading is not
going to be corrected.
So not only is your initial reference
going to be completely arbitrary,
but you're going to drift over
time with respect to that.
Now,
if you specify X arbitrary corrected,
the magnetometer kicks in.
And so now we use the magnetometer
to essentially provide
opportunistic heading corrections.
Since the magnetometer
is additionally running,
that means you're going to
consume a little bit more CPU,
but it does provide you
better long-term Yaw accuracy.
You don't have to worry
about drifting in your view.
All right, but again,
the reference point is going
to be arbitrary in the sense
that it's going to be pegged as
soon as we start device motion,
depending on what your
device is pointing.
If you want it to be fixed on
absolute reference every time,
then use Magnetic North.
And for this one,
you were essentially using the compass.
The difference between the
magnetometer and the compass,
the magnetometer is a sensor.
The compass is yet another sensor
fusion algorithm that is running using
the magnetometer to give you the best
estimate of the Earth's Magnetic North.
That means, though,
if you're gonna use XMagnetic North,
calibration's gonna be required.
So we're gonna provide you, basically,
a property that you can set.
Show device movement display.
It's gonna be set to false by default.
You're gonna set it to true
if you want that HUD to pop
up when you detect that the,
um-- when the device
becomes uncalibrated.
And lastly,
we go to X True North Z Vertical.
So the difference here is
now your reference frame is
pegged not to magnetic north,
but true north.
And of course, as you know,
magnetic north isn't the same
thing as geographic true north.
It's going to differ by some amount,
and that amount actually varies
throughout the globe because of
differences in the magnetic field.
I won't bore you with the details,
but suffice to say that
in some applications,
you're going to care
about the difference,
right?
If you're hiking,
you may care about the difference because
you're going to lose hours walking if
you start heading in the wrong direction.
If you're my mom and you're feng shui,
for feng shui purposes, you really,
really need to know true north,
not magnetic north.
You're going to care.
I didn't know it was
that precise of an art.
So why do you care, though,
about TrueNorth?
Well, it's the direction that
we're most familiar with,
and that's what maps are
using as a reference.
So that's why you'll,
for navigation purposes,
you'll really want the TrueNorth.
We calculate TrueNorth for you,
but what that means is that you're
going to have to enable location
services because we need to know
where you are in the lat-long,
and then we use a model of the Earth's
magnetic field or declination to give
you the approximate difference between
the TrueNorth and the magnetic north.
So key takeaways from this is
that sensor fusion does a lot of
hard work for you if you're not
interested in separating out gravity,
if you're not interested
in removing gyro bias,
and if you're not interested in
calibrating the magnetometer.
And also you can use the reference
range to specify different
flavors of sensor fusion.
So with that,
I think we're gonna step away from
kind of the high-level view of what
sensors are and what sensor fusion is,
and we'll actually get down to the nuts
and bolts of actually using Core Motion.
So the outline for using Core Motion,
there's basically three steps.
You set up, and during the setup,
you're essentially going
to select what you want,
the raw sensor stream or sensor fusion.
You're going to define
your update interval.
And the second step, you're essentially
going to retrieve data,
and when you're retrieving data,
you basically only have two
questions you're asking yourself.
Do I want device motion to push it to me,
or do I want to just
pull to get the data?
And then, of course,
you'll have to clean up,
and that's the last step.
So during the setup,
first thing you want to do
is essentially allocate an
instance of the motion manager,
calling CM Motion Manager, allocating it.
Then what you want to do is
you want to make sure that if
you're interested in the sensor,
that it's available.
If you're interested in sensor fusion,
Because like I said before,
not all devices are
going to have everything.
And next you're going to specify
the desired update interval.
And I'll talk a little bit about
how you do that a little later.
But you don't want to just generally
pick one because it actually has huge
implications for the performance of your
app as well as power considerations.
And then finally, you just start updates.
And you do that by just calling
start accelerometer updates.
You can also call start accelerometer
updates to queue with handler.
And that's actually the push method.
And we'll talk about that a little later.
So to retrieve data,
all you have to do is just basically,
since you're pulling
data from Motion Manager,
all you have to do is in some
context basically just go and
query the accelerometer data.
So, what's going on underneath?
Well, what Core Motion is doing
underneath on the framework side
is it's creating its own threads,
and it's using that to essentially
handle the raw data for you and also
to run the sensor fusion algorithms.
On your side, if you decide to do push,
in other words,
if you want Core Motion to
push the data to you,
all you have to do is provide
an NSQ operation and block,
and then your block will execute
essentially on your own threads.
If you were to pull,
all you're doing then is periodically
asking Core Motion for the latest update,
and again, you're going to do it
in your own context.
The difference between push and pull.
With push,
you're never going to get a sample.
Every sample that Core Motion gets
is going to push to you.
But the disadvantage of that is
that you have increased overhead.
And sometimes for your application,
you may not want every sample.
It's okay to do best effort.
You drop a couple of samples, so what?
You'll catch up.
And so you'll want to use
push only if your application
absolutely needs every sample.
When fidelity is really,
really important,
then you'll want to use this
for data collection apps.
But most other apps, pull is fine.
It's more efficient,
less code is required.
But again,
since you're providing your own context,
you can piggyback onto something or
if you need to create another timer.
So there's a little bit more
complexity involved there.
And it's a mode that you'll want
to use for most apps and games.
So the final step, cleanup.
And there all you have to do is
essentially stop the accelerometer update
and then set motion manager to nil.
So it's just those three steps.
We're going to talk a little
bit about the implications of
everything that you're doing in
those three steps by going through
these set of best practices.
We'll talk about how you're going
to change reference frames or you'll
want to change reference frames,
why you'll need to characterize
the sensors in order to decide
which sensors or which sensor
fusion algorithms to select,
what update rates that
you're going to run it at,
how you're going to optimize all of that.
And we'll also talk about
some common pitfalls that
you'll want to try to avoid.
All right, so what I said before
about the reference frame,
it's kind of an overloaded term.
So your device,
you'll start out and you'll
have some reference frame,
and that is the reference frame
from which all your attitude
is going to be referenced from,
your role, pitch, yaw, whatever.
But that may not be
convenient to express,
especially through UI.
And so, you know, say, for instance,
you want to reset that initial
reference to something that
is pointing right at the user,
some useful resting reference frame.
So what you want to do there is you want
to cache the reference attitude that
is something that is pleasing to you.
And then during subsequent updates,
all you have to do is just take that
attitude and multiply it by the inverse.
And then you'll get essentially your new
attitude referenced through the reference
frame that is a suitable reference.
So characterizing sensors.
These sensors are-- they've been specced,
basically, to meet the widest range of
applications for a mobile device,
but that doesn't mean that they're
gonna meet all applications.
So before you use them,
make sure that you understand what the
dynamic range of these sensors are.
If the accelerometer's measuring 2G,
and you want to strap it onto a missile
and shoot it up and impress your friends,
it's likely gonna saturate,
so you want to avoid doing that.
Sensitivity is the
converse of dynamic range.
Dynamic range is how far can you measure.
Sensitivity is essentially what is the
smallest change that you can sense,
and again, that's something that
you want to characterize.
Just put the sensor on a table,
collect the data, and see how it changes.
Dynamic response,
that's a measure of how quickly it
can respond to changing signals.
Different sensors have
different dynamic responses,
and your application,
obviously they'll have different needs.
And basically the rule of thumb that
you want to do is-- or you want to use
is that for more dynamic applications,
you'll want to sense faster
and faster-- excuse me,
you'll want to sample faster and faster.
Okay?
Noise, that actually eats into
your dynamic response,
because to get rid of noise,
you'll want to filter, and that'll,
again, cut into your phase and margins.
Bias we've already talked about,
so I won't belabor the point there.
But again, the point of all of this
is before you do anything,
before you even start writing the app,
start characterizing your sensors first.
Update interval.
So you saw that in the example code,
we just arbitrarily chose 1/60 hertz,
and a lot of folks will do that
because that is also the frequency
at which the scene is being rendered.
So it's a very convenient
frequency to choose.
But what's really driving how fast
you should sample the sensors?
Well, one is fidelity, right?
Nyquist.
If you're gonna be
sensing a 10-hertz signal,
you want to sample at least 20 hertz.
But in fact, you want to sample more
because you have noise,
and so you want to sample much,
much higher than Nyquist in order
to do some filtering and yet be
able to reconstruct that signal.
But the faster you go,
the more power it's gonna consume,
so you're really gonna have to back off.
And instead of sampling at
200 hertz like you really,
really wanted to, maybe you've got to run
the gyro at 100 hertz.
So again,
that's something that you're gonna
have to do to optimize for your code.
Now, for a lot of motion-enabled apps,
it's a bit of a quandary because
you'll want to be aware of the time
in which you're getting these samples.
But you're basically not getting these
samples under any defined contracts.
In other words, you're going to specify
an update interval,
but you may not necessarily going to get
an update interval because we're going to
deliver the samples to you best effort.
So you're going to get the samples
at the update frequencies that are
defined by the sensors and by CoreOS.
So, and on top of that,
there's going to be jitter.
So if you really need to be aware,
if you really need to be
time aware of your sensors,
you'll need to check the
timestamp of the sensors.
Okay, if you're going to
reconstruct the signal.
That's really, really important,
especially for applications that
are trying to reconstruct anything.
But if you're going to use the timestamp,
use the correct one.
There's two times,
there's multiple times.
You can get timestamps
in a number of ways.
The timestamp that we provide
for you in that sample,
that is a timestamp that is generated
at the driver when we clock that signal.
Basically when we clock
that sample off the sensor.
So it's going to be the
most accurate timestamp.
Don't use the timestamp in the
callback because who knows when that
sample is actually delivered to you.
So that's just something
to be careful about.
Next, don't assume an update interval.
I already touched on that before.
So again, if you want 60 hertz,
you may not necessarily get 60 hertz.
You're actually going to get 50.
You may get 55.
You may get 40.
So if it's really important to you,
actually check the timestamps.
Look at the difference.
Now you want to be careful because
you don't want to just take two
timestamps and look at the interval.
You probably want to do a moving
average to smooth out the jitter in
order to get the average delta T.
And lastly, this may sound trivial,
but in fact, it's really important.
So in your code,
what you do is you essentially say,
start updates to queue with handler.
Excuse me.
You basically call start update.
And then right away,
you want to get in there
and start pulling the data.
Well, the problem is that these sensors,
they're mechanical devices,
and so there's some startup time.
And different sensors will
have different startup times.
The accelerometer starts up right away.
The gyro takes a little longer,
as much as two minutes.
It takes two seconds to spin up.
So if you were to start
pulling right away,
you're going to get nonsensical data.
You're not getting data at all.
So what we do is we hold that data
back until it becomes sensical,
and then we push it on to you.
So what you want to do before
you start doing anything on
the data is check for no.
Okay.
Avoid integration.
I think I kicked that horse to death,
so I won't belabor the point,
but essentially,
anytime you integrate the signal,
you have to worry about instability.
Again, check for existence.
Very important.
So if you're going to do, say,
the sensor,
check whether the magnetometer
is available or not.
If you're going to use sensor fusion...
This is just an example of how you
can check what reference frame is
available by using the bit mask.
So now we get to the coding examples.
And again,
this is examples that we're going
to have available for download.
The first one is basically
going to be a motion graph.
And what that does is it allows you
to essentially select what sensor
signals you want to visualize.
So, you know,
you want to plot accelerometer,
you want to plot user acceleration gyro.
So it's a great tool, again,
to help you characterize your sensors.
Some of the concepts we cover in
there are push semantics and how
to manipulate the update interval,
specify the update rates.
So to start using that,
all you have to do is essentially
import the Core Motion framework.
I won't go into how you
actually set up the build,
but...
in the header.
We put the motion
manager in the delegate,
and the reason we do that here is because
this thing contains a lot of views,
and we just wanted a
single motion manager,
so we kept it in the delegate.
And there we instantiate
the motion manager.
So now in the view controller,
what we do is...
We basically, in each view,
we get a reference to that motion manager
that is shared among all the views.
And then when the view appears,
all we do is we just call start update.
essentially with the interval.
That right there is just a wrapper,
which I'll show you the
implementation underneath.
So start updates with motion
data type and slider values,
just a wrapper around the
start accelerometer updates,
et cetera.
And similarly, if you're going to
change the slider values,
again, we just call that wrapper.
So here,
that wrapper is essentially where we--
Do all the things that I talked about,
how it's important to do.
Check whether the
accelerometer is available.
Set the update interval and
then essentially start the
accelerometer updates to queue.
And that's it.
And then on cleanup,
we just... essentially
call stop the updates.
So that's it, really,
on that coding exercise.
It's just a few lines of code,
a few handfuls of code,
and what you would actually get are
some really cool plots of the sensor
data so that you can play with it to
see what the difference is between
gravity and user acceleration and get a
sense of how when you change the slider
values and you add your own filtering,
how that degrades fidelity or not.
The next demo, which I'm not going to
provide the code for,
at least on the slides,
is a virtual... an augmented reality app.
And here we show concepts such as
how you go from reference attitudes
to chaining all the transformations
together so that you can basically
visualize how... So the idea is that
you're going to hold this... device up,
and as you rotate the device,
you'll visualize objects in
3-space that you're seeing.
So the device basically provides
a window into the solar system.
So that's it.
Thank you.